# C++ Streams

The purpose of this project is to provide sequential streams similar to Java 8
Streams to the C++ language. These streams are designed to work well on their
own and also integrate well into existing C++ STL frameworks.

# Examples

## Creation from containers

Streams are easy to create from existing containers in the standard C++ way.

```c++
std::vector<int> x = {1,2,3,4,5};
Stream<int> st(x.begin(), x.end());
```

This stream will now read from the vector x and hold its data.

## Stream generation

There are two main stream operations that produce streams: generate and iterate.
The static `generate` method takes a function and produces an infinite stream
generated by repeatedly calling the function and taking its output:

```c++
Stream<int>::generate([]() {
    static int counter = 0;
    return ++counter;
});
// Stream contains the sequence 1, 2, 3, ...
```

The static `iterate` method takes an initial value and a function that takes a
single argument of the stream type and returns a value of the stream type. The
stream is then produced by repeatedly applying the function to its previous
result. Thus producing the stream f(init), f(f(init)), f(f(f(init))), and so on.
In the following example, we produce a stream that investigates the [Collatz
conjecture](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collatz_conjecture):

```c++
Stream<int>::iterate(1245, [](int x) {
    if(x % 2 == 0)
        return x / 2;
    return 3 *x + 1 
});
```

## Saving streams

To print out a stream simply use the `print_to` method:

```c++
st.print_to(std::cout); // 1 2 3 4 5
```

To save to another container, use the `copy_to` method which works almost 
identically to `std::copy`.

```c++
std::vector<int> result;
st.copy_to(std::back_inserter(result));
```

Note that the `print_to` method is simply a convenience for `copy_to` in the
following way:

```c++
st.copy_to(std::ostream_iterator<int>(std::cout, " "));
// equivalent to st.print_to(std::cout, " ");
``` 